# HealthCare
Data Visualization Project using CSS, HTML, JavaScript and Google Visulization API

# Abstract
Public Health is a social, environmental and global concern. Understanding how the population views their own health and well-being can provide insights for officials on how to make improvement to the healthcare system. This information can also be useful when determining how to change the education system to provide a better educated population in regards to maintaining personal health and wellness.  The CDC 500 cities dataset provides self reported health care by members of the public and is useful when identifying how healthy civilians of these cities are. Analysis of these survey results shows that overall, the majority of people do engage in preventative measures but approximately a quarter of americans are  engaging in unhealthy behaviors. Luckily, only 13% answered that they currently have a negative health outcome. These facts provide insight that americans have general awareness of how to keep well and are able to do so. 

Links to Data
[Link to CDC Data Explanation](https://nccd.cdc.gov/500_Cities/rdPage.aspx?rdReport=DPH_500_Cities.ComparisonReport)
[Link to Data on Kaggle](https://www.kaggle.com/cdc/500-cities)


# System architecture and description
The CDC 500 cities dataset required preprocessing to become tidy. The raw dataset includes crude and age adjusted percentage that answered yes for each survey question as well as the 95% CI for each. The processed data only shows the age adjusted percentages. New features were created such as city size, region and subregion. These will make discovering trends easier.  The raw data does not include any totals and the processed includes population adjusted totals. The features were also split into different categories. These categories are used to breakdown and simplify the large data set for ease of translation to visualizations. The final dataset includes the 500 cities as rows and as columns the age adjusted  survey answers to healthcare questions.  The data processing was completed to create an architectural tidy csv. 
The architectural design of the webpage is to have three tabs. They include  the home page, and then one for each of the objectives.  The home page will explain the purpose of the project and the objectives tabs will house the visualizations.  For each objective tabs it showcase how to find a solution to answer the main question of that objective.

# Development platforms
A Web Page will be created in order to interact with the visualizations. The webpage will be created using CSS, HTML and Javascript. Google Visualization API will be used to make the interactive visualizations. The scripts will be written in Notepad ++ and the webpage will be tested on Google Chrome. 

# Analyses and conclusions
The preliminary analysis shows that the country does not differ hugely by region or city size when it comes to health and wellness of the individuals. Based on the population adjusted totals for these cities 62% of america takes preventive actions to remain healthy. While 25% of americans have unhealthy behaviors only 13% have negative healthcare outcomes.  The overall totals are roughly the same as those from only the big cities and those from only the small cities. Showing that city size is not a main indicator of health. 
The data was broken into both regional, subregional and state categories. The four regions of South, Northwest, Northeast and Midwest only  show a few point difference from one another in all three of the categories. Between the nine subregions (East North Central, East South Central, Mid Atlantic, Mountain, New England, Pacific, South Atlantic, West North Central and West South Central)  there is also minimal differences on health and wellness. The greatest difference is seen in Unhealthy Behaviors with East South central at 27% of people engaging in unhealthy behaviors and with the Pacific at only 22% of the population engaging in unhealthy behaviors.   However, when viewed by each state individually larger differences are seen. In Preventative measures there is an 11 point difference between the state that has the highest amount of civilians taking preventative measures of West Virginia compared with the state that has the lowest which is New Jersey.  This shows that there is underlying texture throughout the country, but that the way US regions are drawn is not a cause of health and wellness patterns in the country.  
This leads to a conclusion that neither region within the country nor city size are the main factor when it comes to health care of the population. Future further analysis can be done to find other factors that contribute to the health and wellness trends around the country. 

